hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewsday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy podcast I sat down and spoke
with Zach Townsend the CEO and
co-founder of meanwhile meanwhile is the
first and only life insurance company
denominated in Bitcoin with meanwhile
customers can get the same level of
protection as traditional life insurance
but their premiums and payouts are
denominated in Bitcoin instead of US
dollars in this conversation Zach and I
discuss using technology to improve
institutional processes how life
insurance products work how life
insurance can ensure bitcoin's longevity
the product meanwhile offers and the
types of customers they seek how life
insurance can be a part of a balanced
Financial portfolio and much more just a
reminder nothing said on this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Zach and I hope
you enjoyed the conversation too
[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we're joined by
Zach Townsend the CEO and co-founder of
meanwhile how's it going today Zach
great really happy to be here Dylan yeah
me too excited to dig into a lot of the
things that you've been out there
talking about on podcasts and with other
content shows that you've been on but
before we delve into a lot of the great
things that that you're talking about
right now with meanwhile we were just
chatting that we shared a similar
background before working in the crypto
and blockchain space I myself was an
urban planner and I worked at various
different levels of government we both
shared time at the State of California
government which a lot of crypto folks
might be hissing at right now or
snarling at
and I was also I wasn't listening it
wasn't that the uh the tax Authority
just to be clear yeah me neither I
worked at Caltrans as a transportation
planner so don't put us off the dry too
quickly but can you just share a little
bit about before you got into the text
side of things what your background was
in the government and political space
well sure you know when I graduated from
college I actually went to go work at
this consulting firm that was all folks
who had worked for Mike Bloomberg when
he was mayor he was in New York City and
we did really like management and
data-driven Consulting for cities across
the country as part of that I got
involved in Newark New Jersey and I grew
up in New Jersey and Cory Booker was
recruiting for someone to come be the
head of innovation they feel like what
does that mean you know it really meant
anything that needed to get done so the
story I really tell about the
nitty-gritty is there used to be really
a really long line every day with people
trying to get their birth certificate
you know their vital records in the city
of Newark so I just went and created
that office and access database you know
it wasn't like I did anything really
super fancy but it really like cut wait
times down literally by hours so I
really went all over the city doing
things like that and I got really
interested in financial inclusion and
financial empowerment and like money
stuff and why because people in West
Newark kind of bank accounts and PayDay
lending and check cashing and all this
stuff because I just got to sign that
portfolio randomly so when mayor Booker
decided to run for Senate I was like I
don't really have any interest in the
Senate I don't know you know really what
Senators do so I moved out to San
Francisco and very briefly uh had a job
at strike and that my theory was like
okay if I hear about financial inclusion
like let's work on financial
infrastructure and I was just like on
Hacker News and I was like well this
stripe company seems cool and they're
building Financial infrastructure and
I'll be like good segue into that and
then what was the best or worst decision
of my life uh so I guess the worst
financial decision like the best life
decision is I you know got into YC and
left stripe after a few months and built
this company called standard Treasury
and Center treasury was basically what
now we call it banking as a service
company so it was like making apis and
all this infra between Banks and
fintechs and to not make this a whole
podcast about my first failed company
you know I learned a lot and we were
absolutely right about the world and
actually multiple people on my team went
to found successor companies so treasury
Prime is literally a joke about standard
treasury it's like treasury standard
treasury version two and there's a bank
in the UK called Griffin which is like
an AWS for banking it's founded by
another guy on our team so like we
really we were right but we were just
like too early and we sort of like
failed into an acquisition and that's
actually when I got in the sort of first
got exposed to crypto so Brian and Fred
at coinbase wanted to Aqua hire the
company and they like needed like
payments risks compliance people so that
you know there's another like chance I
guess I could have had a hundred million
dollars if I did something different and
so I first like I knew about Bitcoin but
I actually like got my first Bitcoin in
a meeting with Brian like sending me
Bitcoin like on coinbase
but what happened is a bunch of people
on the team or like real crypto Skeptics
and coinbase was basically like we can't
hire like all seven of you because it'd
be such a culture bomb because so many
of you are for this kind of dicks so
they're like okay we'll take this half
about this other half and we were just
like okay we don't wanna we didn't want
to leave anyone high and dry I wanted to
like make sure everyone end up in a good
place so we had another offer at Sil
from Silicon Valley Bank which is sort
of funny to say now but it was a legit
place to go work in 2015 you know there
wasn't any signs that was gonna blow up
and they wanted the whole team they
wanted to continue the product they
wanted us to own like API banking so we
went to sgb but I stayed interested in
crypto sort of as a side thing like
really from that moment and then when I
was at SUV for about a year it was
really miserable I was looking for any
way to leave you know people who worked
for Governor Brown the governor of
California at the time approached uh
yeah they were looking for a chief data
officer to really build out you know so
that capacity in the state and they
asked Corey's chief of staff for
recommendation and they recommended me
and that's sort of like how I ended up
going and doing that for a year awesome
anyway I'll pause I'm telling my whole
life story which wasn't really what you
asked but you just like barreled through
like three questions I had lined up so I
think something that will be super
interesting to our audience is correct
me on my time frames if I'm wrong but
you you were um building standard
treasury from 2012 to 2016. it was
really 2012 to 2015 and then svb bought
us and that was like 2015 2016. yeah
well back in the day like svb was also
one of the only banks that was you know
reputable enough and willing to work
with the crypto currency space as a
whole yes yes yes and also I think they
were doing some really like coinbase was
working with the SUV at the time but you
know I didn't enjoy an SUV because of
the we I didn't do a lot of work there
on crypto stuff right so I'm curious
then because you were saying that when
you were at standard treasury you know
this is a group of folks you want to
incorporate new access to apis and new
technology to
uh what's the best way to put it um
update outdated government systems yeah
or yeah yeah so you guys essentially
sound like uh Trad five I hate this term
but Maxie's at the time and so you're
meeting with Brian at coinbase and you
get your first Bitcoin what were your
initial
um opinions of cryptocurrency was it at
odds with kind of the philosophy you had
and the kind of rails and systems you
guys were trying to build in the
existing infrastructure and then on top
of the first time you heard about
Bitcoin and you got it what was your aha
moment what really clicked what made you
realize that this is the space you want
to be in I was actually sort of
intellectually interested in Bitcoin
like pretty early and got introduced to
it pretty early probably like 20 10 11
12 and really should have like gone and
bought a bunch of Bitcoin but for me it
seemed a lot more like a like what is
money kind of experiment and like you
you know read the white paper and I
really wasn't thinking of it as
something that would become its own
economy which is how I feel now and saw
it more as you know really a point in a
whole line of like what is digital money
and how do we think about changing the
system and by System I mean like the
literal systems that we do things like
payments so I think even when I got to
know coinbase a little bit better and
got to meet Brian and Fred you know this
was like
2015 right so it's still pretty early
you know and I think that what crypto
has become and would become and I think
has the potential to become like still
wasn't clear right I think it felt a lot
like you know one of the things I like
to say is what's interesting about
crypto is you know usually in the
history of the world you build a like a
real economy and I mean then like the
economic sense and then you build a
financial economy and I think what's
interesting about crypto in some ways is
we built a financial a pretty robust
Financial economy and then we're like
backfilling a real economy and I think
that it definitely took me time to see
the potential and the opportunity and
like the I want to spend my life working
on this
so in 2015 it really felt a lot like you
know I don't know exactly it's like it's
like a mount gox ERA this like before I
guess around or you know like the IPO
like isn't that far in the just you know
so I think there was a lot of like
intellectual stuff happening but it
still felt like trading was the only use
case and that didn't really resonate
with me and then on the aha moment I'm
not sure there was a single aha moment
where I was like oh my God this is this
is it you know I I think that you know
I've been converted I think rather it
was a slow accumulation of I was
spending more and more of my time
reading about it I was spending more and
more of my time thinking about different
protocols and different tokens and like
what I want Bitcoin to be and so yeah
when we sat down my co-founder Max and
me and we're the type of friends that
like we'd sit down every six months to
like think about a new company company
when that we might found together and we
were a little more serious because we
were both like at these moments in our
career we thought we could transition
into doing something together you know
really what we one of our first you know
big picture ideas was okay we think
crypto is the future and digital money
is you know the way to go and there's
gonna be so much potential but that the
next 10 years in crypto and by the way
this is like late 2021 right like
Thanksgiving 2021 is more meeting to
talk about this stuff and we said okay
the next 10 years of crypto is gonna the
value is going to accrue to people who
can deal with regulatory BS so what are
some like what are business ideas we
have at the interface of like regulation
land and crypto land and we recognizing
ourselves that like we're good at the
particular type of pain that comes from
like regulation land and we've been
talking more about this but the point is
like I think that it wasn't like a
sudden jar it was like okay this is more
and more interesting it's more and more
of my time it's more and more of what
I'm thinking about it's more and more
what I'm doing and then like when we
actually came to the moment of like oh
let's ideate on some ideas what we
ideated was okay what can we do like at
the interface of traffic and Regulation
and curriculum it comes from a very
entrepreneurial kind of background that
you have and also your experience in
working in political institutions we
could call them maybe Civic
infrastructure when I was working as a
planner I've worked at the federal level
the county level and at the state level
and there's just outdated software at
all of these levels and it's and it's
yeah almost impossible to get updated
because the people at the top who are
the ones that can affect the change are
not the ones who are in the weeds day in
and day out dealing with these outdated
systems so I'm wondering how did the
success of your two previous startups
that were kind of the intersection of
tech and politics government civic duty
whatever you want to call it how did
that factor into your decision to kind
of take the leap into providing a
traditional
multi-hundred year industry in insurance
and bridging that to crypto yeah so I do
think that for me there is this strand
of wanting to like affect positive
change in the world and you know I think
obviously in crypto land there's a lot
of there can be a lot of skepticism that
government's a way to do that but for
better or worse like governments exist
and they'll continue to exist and and
for me there's the two opportunities I
had in government service was a lot
about it's very hard and the software is
terrible but you know if you can uh move
that chip of course that chip a little
bit it can often have like really big
impacts and you can attract a ton of
people so you know at the margin
um I always saw that despite some deep
frustrations in those experiences in
um if you do things better it can it can
really affect people and I think my
entrepreneurial experience with singer
Treasury and now it meanwhile you know I
think I'm motivated by the same thing
which is if anything in some ways I feel
now it's probably easier to do is to
like build something new in the world
and see to have a positive change so on
the financial infrastructure at Santa
treasury for me that was a lot about if
we can drive the marginal costs of you
know a bank account to zero then lots
more people should have bank accounts if
you can try the marginal cost of a
payments down then you know people will
do a lot more payments right et cetera
et cetera and I think you're absolutely
right from before that our framing was
definitely like through traffic and I
think you know with crypto we have a
very similar view I'm sure we'll get
into what we do now but in some ways
what we do now is we we have a life
insurance product that's really for for
like high net worth individuals for uh
the people who want to be like crypto
whales but the minimum size of our life
insurance policy right now is five BTC
right you know paid over 10 years if you
want but like that's pretty significant
right so there's not a ton of people in
the world who can afford that but for us
it's all about building that
infrastructure and by that I mean
regulatory infrastructure technical
infrastructure compliance and risk
everything you know my ultimate vision
is that anyone in the world who you know
has concerns about currency risk or
inflation risk or regime risk you know
should be able to buy a life insurance
policy you know in this digital design a
lot Global digital decentralized
currency so that's what like really
motivates me in in the long term 10 15
20 years it's that the we think there
could be hundreds of millions of users
for this and it could really positively
affect their lives well for the lives of
those around them I guess in the case of
life insurance and then we have a lot of
steps between now and then yeah so I
guess kind of like a broader I want to I
want to talk about some like broader
General overview stuff uh before we dig
into the to the guts of meanwhile
so I guess kind of as we're jumping out
of the plane and coming from the 10 000
foot view to the 10-foot view why use
Bitcoin as the current the digital
currency and then secondly why meld the
insurance realm with the Bitcoin
ecosystem well why Bitcoin I think
obviously it's the most developed it's
the most mature in many ways but I think
fundamentally why we started with
Bitcoin is you know and we're very
optimistic I can never put a monthly
about the idea that there will be a
Bitcoin economy in the future but
fundamentally to us Bitcoin looks a lot
like this you know it is a store of
value there are all these different
things that currencies can be used for
and Bitcoin is the one that looks the
most you know that way like it's going
to be a long-term store of value and you
know a whole culture of pogbling has
developed around that intergenerational
wealth transfer and fundamentally if you
believe all of that then life insurance
makes a lot of sense right you know I
think we for a lot of people they have
in their heads that life insurance is
you know just about what if you die
accidentally and there is a whole class
of Life Insurance products they're like
that the life insurance products that we
started with are are called whole life
and I'll I can explain what that means
but essentially they're they're more
like Investments that you're making on
behalf of your beneficiaries they're
it's much more like an investment
account so we started with Bitcoin
exactly because like that's a whole
mentality that obviously what we're
doing has some uh cross currents with
you know self-sovereignty and pure
decentralization in that like we are a
company and you do send us your Bitcoin
But ultimately we think there's a real
alignment between Bitcoin as a store of
value and Bitcoin and life insurance as
a as a vehicle um for Bitcoin yeah and
so I think um I'm not sure if it's maybe
just me and and the signal I'm I'm
reading through the noise on my Twitter
feed which is mostly crypto Twitter
folks but a kind of trend I've been
noticing in 2023 is this right Eyes Of
The Narrative of real world assets
melding with blockchains so what's your
just general Outlook I mean obviously
you're building a company that's
providing life insurance using the
Bitcoin Network so you obviously have a
positive outlook on the melding of of
rwas and blockchain Technology but where
do you think like the rest of the world
is where are the cryptocurrency
entrepreneurs and where are the
traditional
decade-long providers of insurance and
other rwas where do you think this
narrative is going and do you think
there's Merit to this kind of trend
right now yeah look let me split that
into two different parts and the first
is about real world assets and the other
is you know about in some ways the
crypto economy and I think those things
are melding together but I want to say
that like I really believe that when you
look out 20 30 40 years and one of the
nice things about running an insurance
life insurance company is like those are
the time frames you get to think on you
know like 10 20 30 40 years is just like
that's what we we need to operate in
like when I look out that far I really
believe there's going to be a robust
global economy you know in in Bitcoin
and potentially in some other tokens and
what that means is not just that the
real world will have to come to the
blockchain but I think also and Bitcoin
but that Bitcoin in many ways will
become more real world like and what do
I mean by that what I mean is like the
Bitcoin will need to be more than like
gold in the ground and the analogy is
like you put it on your wallet and you
bury it in the backyard and then you
just have this it's gold in the ground
that's what it is literally in that case
and I believe that Bitcoin has to be
money and like when you read satoshi's
white paper like it is about like money
and movement and payments and what does
that mean it means that there's going to
have to be Capital markets in Bitcoin it
means there's going to have to be you
know lending in Bitcoin and there's
gonna have to be cash flows in Bitcoin
and I'm definitely in the camp in
Bitcoin World which is much more of like
how do we make this active how do we
make it a thing in the world and yeah
you can have differing opinions I think
on ordinals and lightning and stacks and
whatever it is in the particular but I'm
definitely like if the Bitcoin Community
is split between like people who want
those sorts of things to exist
and people who don't want those sorts of
things resist I'm definitely in the like
I want those things to exist right
because like what is a life insurance
like a life insurance company is like in
those classes of things right and then I
think real world assets and tokenization
I believe all that is absolutely going
to happen because of the substrates of
blockchains are yeah I should really put
like blockchains in quotes in some ways
like I think like substrates of the
crypto economy are much better and for a
lot of places it allows us to to skip
some stages in what could be a more
gradual Evolution
and yeah so I think that's all all great
and I think it'll be both of those
things so both be like assets that exist
in the world and turning them you know
bringing them into crypto land but also
I think crypto land like coming to the
world and then there'll be a bunch of
interactions right like if you start to
think of the price of Bitcoin less as
the price of Bitcoin that is like is a
thing you buy and more as a foreign
exchange rate that exists between
dollar land and Bitcoin land then you
begin to talk and think more about
Bitcoin land as an economy you get to
talk and think about it more as a thing
that should have a yield curve and you
you know can start to say like well
maybe Bitcoin is a a global sediment
layer and there are things that hang off
of that but all of those all of that
vision is certainly contingent on it
being a useful active thing and so maybe
this is a bit of a softball I'm teeing
up for you
what does the role of bringing the
insurance industry into the Bitcoin
ecosystem play how significant is this
why is it important well I'm glad you
asked Dylan um no no so let me just say
that like fundamentally we do two
different things and that is like the
nature of all life insurance companies
so one is that we um we're all Insurance
Company the purse is like we're in the
insurance business right and for us that
is really you know these are pretty
fundamental needs that is like life
insurance is really about like what if
you die before you're supposed to and
how do you take care of your
beneficiaries and by the way annuities
are really about like what if you live
longer than you're supposed to and you
like need cash flow in the back end
these are really like and the oldest
savings product in the world is actually
burial insurance right so we think that
those sorts of needs are real and they
exist in the world so obviously they
should be done crypto and it's nice that
we have a very like good place to start
which is that life insurance in the in
the US and many other jurisdiction to
the very privileged like tax position so
what our product now is real is you know
the value prop for folks is if you were
intending to hold your Bitcoin forever
anyway then you know why not or hoddle
your Bitcoin forever like why don't you
put it in this like really efficient
Tech driver and I I can explain all
about that so that's one side of it is
like these are fundamental human needs
like obviously they should happen in
crypto land right on the other side
actually insurance companies play this
really vital role in the economy and we
don't think of it that way but like much
of the long-term infrastructure in the
world is owned by insurance company
because they have they are like
permanent Capital they have very
long-term perspectives so one of the
things that we are doing is trying to
provide and help create longer-term
Capital markets so when we insure
someone we aren't insuring them
hopefully for for decades right but
there aren't decade-long assets in
crypto and in Bitcoin so we're um we're
out there every day trying to like push
the limits of what's possible vis-a-vis
duration right so I have conversations
with you know market makers and
investment banks in crypto land and like
one of the first things we always say is
like okay we're trying to look to do
something for like locked up for three
years or like into a three-year Term
Loan in Bitcoin and this is like
completely new this is like completely
different than like people are used to
lending overnight or having Structured
Products overnight you know it's a very
like short-term market so I think we see
it you know our core Mission as this
combo of providing life insurance to the
world through crypto through Bitcoin and
then providing life insurance to the
Bitcoin and crypto world through our
company and then on the other hand being
long-term capital you know really trying
to help build that ecosystem you
brainstormed meanwhile with your
co-founder in 2021-ish so very late very
late late 2021 yeah and then 2022
happens yes TX collapse three arrows
Capital defunct I should say that that
was all actually much later right so we
started the company in like the very
beginning of the year I think we were
Incorporated in January 2022 so we you
know really left our job problems like
February March raised Capital
um then we're sort of Off to the Races
and then yeah I mean the the really
practical thing is you know things were
very frothy and hot and um we actually
you know we went to crypto Bahamas which
was the FTX conference and to me that's
like the absolute top because it was
like the week before a Celsius blew up
and we didn't have we hadn't actually
made a lot of like practical progress in
our business but people were uh you know
offering us a series a and like we were
literally negotiating potential you know
additional amount of capital
and then Celsius blew up and that's sort
of a deal blew up but it didn't actually
affect what we did or were doing right
you know I think we it's my second
company it's my co-founders third
company you know we we've had a plan you
know to get regulated in Bermuda to have
a real life insurance company we kind of
very slow and deliver on hiring so in
some ways this all ended up being I
don't want to overstate it like we
weren't paying attention but it was sort
of background noise right like FDX blew
up and we were like okay well we still
uh are working on getting our regulatory
license in Bermuda um you know and
obviously we are fortunate that you know
a lot of our partner partners and what
that I mean the BMA our lawyers you know
Actuarial Consultants you know some of
them I think have stuck with us uh in a
time when a lot of service providers and
Regulators have been stepping away from
crypto but on a really core fundamental
level like we haven't actually done much
different than we would have even though
it's been the bear so I guess there's
two things I want to pull on that thread
a just you know your experience with the
BMA and how they're a forward-looking
regulatory body especially when it comes
to the insurance realm but
um maybe that's in it you can address
that secondly and I first want to hear
so you're finding that you didn't really
run into any negative conversations
today as a result of the kind of
calamities that existed of 2022 the
folks that you're rubbing elbows with uh
maybe because the insurance industry
does take this 30 plus year time frame
Horizon insurance land is is very
skeptical of crypto I will say it's been
really interesting though that let me
take a step back and just sort of
explain how our company works so we have
this um Anthony and Bermuda it's a
regulated and licensed life insurance by
the company by the BMA and I don't care
back to that and it is entirely
denominated in Bitcoin so what that
means is when people buy a policy they
pay all their premiums in Bitcoin when
people tragically die and the claims
paid out to their beneficiaries that is
in Bitcoin and everything in between is
in Bitcoin so uh are what are called our
reserves our solvency calculations our
statutory financials or audited
financials and or Investments are all in
Bitcoin and why we did that and why
that's such an interesting and important
innovation is that the price of Bitcoin
doesn't matter to this company right
because the assets and the liabilities
that is like money we're giving and the
money we pay out are all in Bitcoin so
Bitcoin goes to 35
000 and goes to sixty thousand it goes
to 15 500 like none of that matters to
us because you know that our entire
balance sheet moves together or yeah
actually we frame it it doesn't move at
all you know what I mean
um so that is really or that's just it's
just unique it's there's nothing like it
in insurance and what I think has been
interesting is when we talk to insurance
people and you know we have some
investors who are some of the biggest
life insurance companies in the world
there's definitely a deep skepticism of
crypto and it's a deep skepticism that
this is all going to work out in general
but there's a deep understanding of the
model we've developed it makes a lot of
sense right so we mean actuaries you
know who don't know anything about
crypto don't only in crypto we don't
have any belief in Bitcoin or the crypto
economy and we explain it to them like
how we've structured the company and
they not and say oh that makes sense
that's like that's like the right way to
do it right so I think that that's
insurance man should I talk about the
VMA yes please uh yeah the Bermuda
monetary Authority look you know I think
on a political level uh Premier Bert
who's a like you know the head of
government in Bermuda it's a very
pro-crypto I think the BMA has a very
forward-looking digital asset business
license you see uh coinbase has put
their their offshore entity there I
think a bunch of other big names are in
the process of getting licensed uh so I
think it's a jurisdiction that is very
pro-crypto they open the crypto and
really thoughtful in thinking through
what's unique about crypto businesses
and the custody and all that stuff at
the same time they are really a globally
renowned Premier Insurance regulator
and actually the life insurance business
in particular is booming in uh Bermuda I
wish I mean there's a lot of new life
insurance companies you know they have a
whole history of PNC insurance and
captivates and all of that so I think
that is why we we pick them because of
this combo right so I think for
insurance folks but even for
non-insurance folks like we can say you
know like bermuda's the insurance
capital of the world you walk around
Hamilton Bermuda and you see all these
big buildings owned by big insurance
companies like they know what they're
doing
and other people know that they know
what they're doing and working with them
has been you know a real collaboration I
don't want to get into the technical
nitty-gritty details but like you know
how you do reserving and what your
discount curves are and like how like
what solvency means like these are
things we had to work at have had to
work out with them and are continue to
work out with them and that's a real
conversation we approach them we
describe something that I think we were
fortunate uh that they thought made
sense and then they have been working
with us you know month to month to make
it all happen and it is a little more
challenging than doing PNC insurance or
what in Bermuda is called General
business you know your contracts usually
lasts a year so there's a lot more
flexibility there right if you really
screw up your PNC business you just tell
a PNC business to stop and all the
contracts will run off in the air you
know as a life insurer or a long-term
insurer we're entering in the contracts
are supposed to last decades you know
until people die so I think things have
certainly been slower than they would
have been if we just wanted to do wallet
insurance or Peg insurance but it's it's
been a really great collaboration and it
took us about a year end to end to get
the license which is actually slower
than their normal Pace but I think quite
reasonable given the check that like all
that we had to talk through and then it
took us about six months to actually
like stand up a fully functioning life
insurance company right so we we do know
your customer and any money laundering
checks and any terrorist financing
checks and we do underwriting and we we
do Reserve like we're I like to tell
people like we are running a whole life
insurance company with six people and
that that is Quite a feat and it did it
took us some time to get that all up and
then you know to walk the BMA through it
all to make sure that they were
comfortable but again every step of the
way they've been a great a great partner
but I think critically you know not
someone they're looking to find a way to
get to yes but they aren't just saying
yes and I think that's a contrast with
some of the other offshore jurisdictions
who really just want the crypto business
or want the innovative business and
they'll really do anything I think that
they they really want to do things right
and they want to work with people to do
things right but that is why working
with them is so great because I think
all of our users other Regulators can
know that they've pressure tested the
business yeah I really appreciate the
way you kind of shared the scrutiny that
the BMA put meanwhile under the other
insurance entities that are in the
blockchain space that have been on the
Pod have shared similar kind of
experiences with the authority I want to
take a side step real quick because and
I know that U.S regulations and the
regulatory battles that are going on
right now are adjacent to if not related
at all yeah to the kind of regulations
you're concerned about but at East
Denver earlier this year a lot of VCS
and lawyers were talking about this
brain during train of crypto talent that
was leaving the us because of regulatory
uncertainty and then maybe from a
hardcore crypto enthusiasts perspective
we've had a really positive past month
in the space we've had Fidelity and
BlackRock filing ETFs we had the
District Court of New York stating that
secondary sales of xrp were you know the
programmatic tokens that weren't sold as
precede or to institutional investors
were deemed as not Securities you know
that's not you know written in stone yet
but we've had some positive regulatory
news in the past month what is just from
your perspective of somebody who's
working alongside various different
blockchain and crypto companies in the
US what's just your perspective of the
regulatory stance where we're at right
now because it could go either way yeah
look I think you're absolutely right
there's just been really positive
developments in the last month and
there's increased momentum you know I
think for a lot of folks I think there's
just a feeling the SEC was a little bit
on the war path and probably overstep
their bounds and I think what that'll
really do
is I hope get some of the you know
moderate Democrats in the house in the
Senate sort of off the sidelines to work
together to like figure out how to
actually have a piece of legislation
around uh crypto regulation I think that
that's actually I think the hope for
clarity there'll be increased positive
momentum you know we'll see what happens
in the grayscale case in the coming
months so it's just been great and the
institutional interest
is I think only going to increase and
that's institutional investors that's
institutions you know like BlackRock and
Fidelity who want to provide the user
experiences to their customers around
crypto and I think think that all of
that will just add to this you know
long-term momentum toward building a a
crypto again a robust Global crypto
economy in the future so as for us we're
really happy to be offshore uh you know
we're looking at ways to potentially
start a life insurance carrier in the
U.S that would be structured in a
slightly different way but you know
we've worked with a bunch of lawyers and
compliance folks to make sure our
policies like work well for U.S people
and get all the tax benefits of life
insurance so people you know who find
out about us through a friend or you
know however they might find out about
us like they're able to come to us and
buy a policy if they want even as a US
person you know insurance is really
weird and that there is no Federal
Regulation of insurance I mean this
would be the whole thing another whole
podcast actually Congress passed the law
that says they won't pass a law around
regulating insurance it's like a really
weird weird space so there are some ways
that um you can end up touching
Securities Law and other things and
basically what we've done is to just
really design a product that doesn't get
anywhere near any of those lines so we
don't have to worry about the SEC but I
think again as we think in decades the
important thing is there's bears and
Bulls but I think when you look at the
long-term Trend you're going to see more
more institutional interests and more
retail interest in the US and globally
and you know even though they're there
are going to be those waves like you
know I think it's up and to the right
when measured in long enough time frames
something that is really interesting to
me because uh in the conversation before
we started recording I was telling you
how I got into cryptocurrencies which
which was the result of learning about
401ks and and hsas and all these tax
advantage kind of retirement accounts
so for somebody who's in the U.S or
maybe for people who are outside the US
and just don't understand the types of
tax benefits that life insurance
policies can have can you just like
explain like I'm five how that may or
may not relate to 401k's health savings
accounts things of this nature yeah so
let me explain what our product is so
our product is called a limited pay full
life product so whole life means it
lasts your whole life there it's well
named so you pay into the policy and
then you know whenever you die your
beneficiaries get paid so this is in
contrast to a lot of people I think have
term Life policies so it lasts like 10
years 20 years 30 years so term life you
probably get a much a really high
multiple on what you put in but it's
only if you die right in whole life
you're really putting uh okay you're
putting your Bitcoin in our case or you
know dollars into a classical life
policy and you're really assured to get
them out right because you will
eventually die
so you get a much lower multiple but
it's more like an investment account and
it's limited pay so what we do is you
know for tax reasons you really want to
have it so you have it multiple payments
so you um you can pay over 10 years in
equal installments and then we have this
thing called a premium deposit account
which people can pay up front and I can
explain sort of why people want to do
that so in general Whole Life policies
uh have three benefits and ours is no
different so the first is any
accumulation is tax free if you you know
set it up with a trust or it's very
particular to people's individual
circumstances but you can you can have
it so it lands outside your taxable
estate if the estate tax is something
um you're worried about so just this
first thing is like it's a great way to
do intergenerational wealth transfer you
know it's just a good way to have an
investment account and get it to your
beneficiaries in a really tax efficient
way the second thing is every whole life
policy you know has a an investment
return within it right you don't really
frame it that way so usually you know
you're framing is like oh I'm putting a
million dollars in this policy death
benefits 10 million dollars but at the
end of the day that's turning one
million dollars into 10 million dollars
right so there's a there's a sort of
investment return there in our case you
know really depends on your age is very
particular how healthy you are but you
know you might put in 10 Bitcoin and get
20 out right so so there's an investment
return like in the product like you put
10 in you get 20 out and the third thing
that's really cool about Whole Life
Products is um when the structure right
is ours is is you can borrow against the
policy tax-free so there's still this
option for liquidity there's still an
option you know if you need it to get
some Bitcoin out or some dollars out in
the classic policy so for us uh again
you let's say you put 10 in the death
benefits 20. basically you have like a
savings account like a savings value in
Classic Insurance is called the cash
surrender value we actually just call it
the surrender value because like is
Bitcoin cash I mean we think so but we
don't want to get in trouble by calling
a cat and how that works is it's sort of
like a savings account that um you know
amortizes over time like as you own the
policy its value goes up and what's nice
about that is the technical jargon is a
non-mac a non-modified endowment
contract but don't worry about that what
it really just means you can borrow tax
free against the policy right and that's
really amazing inside this Bitcoin
policy right so you know Bitcoins at 30
000 a day you pay your premiums in
Bitcoin you know in 10 years 20 years
Bitcoins at 300 000. you can borrow a
Bitcoin from us
um and you could spend it with no tax
obligations and what's nice about that
is that you actually never have to pay
the loan back because we net out the
loan against your death benefit when you
die so we do we won't lend you more
money than you know we won't lend you
more Bitcoin than could eventually be
paid by your death benefit but it's a
way to get liquidity without really
worrying about the only thing I'll say
though again not not people's tax
advisors but you know it's our
understanding that you do pay capital
gains going in so I don't want to over
analogize here but I think for people's
mental frame it's somewhat like a Roth
account in that you know you have to put
in after tax Bitcoin right so you have
to pay Capital Gains in your Bitcoin for
buying new Bitcoin but then you can get
this liquidity later that's tax-free or
uh you know eventually you die and you
know hopefully pass some of your
beneficiaries and tax efficiently so in
that way you could think of as like
locking in your capital gains basis or
you know saving in a Roth like way or or
um something like that is the structure
that you guys have built essentially
copy and pasting from the traditional
using cash for insurance did you guys
essentially just bridge that to using
Bitcoin or are there also other kind of
new nuances that you've added to the
policy that's a little bit more
Innovative than the traditional
Insurance space it's funny the way you
frame that question it's actually
somewhat the opposite it which is that
we didn't copy and paste dollar policies
because they tend to actually be really
complicated you know there's just all
this history and like interacting with
agents and like how things are sold and
like you know you want to say you're
getting S P 500 returns but it's hedge
on the bottom and like it's actually a
lot of these Insurance products are just
really complicated and really
unnecessarily complicated so what we
really did is we took a product design
that's like out of the 1850s or
something right it's super simple
um and I think that's actually the nice
thing about crypto is not that you have
to reinvent any of everything but
because you're are Reinventing
everything sometimes you can just like
have a much simpler clear value
proposition for folks so our value prop
I like to use the 10 because you're
paying 10 years right so you pay one
Bitcoin a year for 10 years you promise
your beneficiary is 20. that's really
the whole I mean there's all the tax
stuff there's a lot of benefits like
actually conceptually understand the
product like that is the simplest whole
life product you can imagine not the
most complicated and where does that
additional 10 Bitcoin come from is that
just from the increasing float that
meanwhile is gonna aggregate over time
yeah so rewinding all the way back to
like life insurance companies are this
like critical piece of permanent capital
in the infrastructure so what we do is
very conservatively this is like what a
lot of our conversation with the BMA is
and our indep we have an independent
Board of our insurance company and risk
management procedures and an investment
committee basically we lend Bitcoin to
institutional counterparties for yield
and that scares a lot of people but our
Target irr is quite low it's about call
it three percent so we're not trying to
do crazy they have no offense to anyone
you know 16 percent five stop or turn it
into rap bitcline and lever it up 10
times and you know make directional bets
no so what we do is we go to like
institutional counterparties so think
like market makers you know hedge funds
you know maybe some minors we've had
trouble finding people we think are
credit worthy and then we're like
running a private credit desk you know
this is not crazy on on chain stuff
although I hope in time there'll be more
and more lending of Bitcoin in like ways
that are institutionally suitable but
like we negotiate credit contracts with
people right like we're gonna lend you
100 BTC and you're gonna give us three
BTC for three years and you're gonna pay
us back a principal and then like where
are we in the bankruptcy stack like what
is the collateral like how do we perfect
the security it's like real credit
operations and I think that's something
that we really want to draw a contrast
with you know obviously I think credit
had some hiccups over the last a year or
so but like this is this is very
deliberate and that that is part of the
point is we think there needs to be deaf
Capital markets in Bitcoin and used to
be lending and critically we're trying
to push durations out right so most
lending that happens in Bitcoin and and
the rest of crypto you're talking about
overnight one month maybe one year if
you're lucky we're actually trying to go
to people and say we would like to lend
you Bitcoin for three years and how can
you model your cash flows like what can
you do with that how can we have trust
or how can we work to get some certainty
that you'll pay us back you'll have that
Capital do that then the other thing is
well regulated by the BMA like every
insurance company you know we are
essentially posting our own Capital
right so every time we write a policy
like we have to put a little bit of our
own Capital there and it's not exactly
how insurance people conceive of it but
like in some ways that's first loss
Capital right so if we had some loan go
sideways like our capitals was going to
get hit first not our our users capital
and then we would be required to post
more Capital so that's what we do we uh
yield Bitcoin yield low risk low yield
to turn 10 into 20 over 40 years yeah I
really like the way that you frame
creating a more robust and long living
Bitcoin economy by locking up these
Bitcoin with institutional clients so I
guess kind of the major hurdle then
would be are these institutions that are
willing to be counterparties with you
are you starting to hear more and more
Whispers that they're coming into the
ecosystem are you finding it easier and
easier as time goes on to find folks who
are willing to have a three-year time
frame well I don't know about easier and
easier what I would say is if you have
asked me a year ago I would have said
this is the existential threat to the
business the access not not threat the
existential like bet of the business
this this will exist and it'll work what
I'm feeling now is like we have a lot
more borrower interest than we have
capacity we have a lot more and that's
great because we can be really choosy so
we are already in a situation where
we're saying no to a bunch of people or
you know someone approached us and like
you know I'll pay you 15 and I'm like
Madeline does not sound sketchy but even
if it wasn't sketchy like that's not the
risk reward for us right like we're
really we're really just in a different
place on on the um so you know we've
been talking a little bit internally
about maybe doing you know something
with that skill set whether it's looking
out and like maybe raising a fun that's
like for BTC yield but you know it's
more like a private credit fund with
some duration but you know I think we're
feeling more and more confident that you
know this part of the business is
something that can work now but it is
definitely still a really it's a
long-term bet like we believe there will
be not only will there need to be robust
Bitcoin economy but they'll be need to
be robust that Capital markets like long
into the future
and actually again in collaboration with
the BMA what we've done is we've put a
sort of like exit clause in our
contracts for the first 10 years where
we can like give everyone their money
their money back basically if these debt
Capital markets don't exist and that's
really because we want to be aligned
with our users we don't want to be in a
situation where we're chasing risk to
meet our guarantees the only way we want
to run this business is if like the risk
reward directly matches up with you know
the types of risks that are appropriate
for a life insurance company and the
types of durations they should have and
yeah we're seeing more and more positive
signs that that's going to work out but
we also you know every step of the way
we think that well actually let me just
take this comment I I think sometimes
life insurance can feel there's the old
why it's a thing that's sold it's not
bought it can feel a little sleazy maybe
or the way it's sold the way it's
designed there's a lot of complications
they're Riders there's complexity
there's there is this like person who's
selling you this thing and they're
commissioned and something about the
whole thing can feel off for people and
I think one of the reasons that we're so
happy to have been able to design a
super simple product and you'll be doing
something in a space that's brand new is
to have policy orders first and
obviously I think every life insurance
company wants to have their
policyholders first and their guarantees
but also we think that extends the
product design they extends the user
experience the extends to everything and
the Investments are just one part of
that and it's something that quite
literally actually when we talk about
our values which I know sometimes can
sound like this really corporate
exercise it actually does animate us
every day that like one of our values is
to think in the long term because like
you know the obligations and Promises
we're making are super long term and
there's just no shortcuts and that means
we're a little slower you know than uh
than some others but I think that's the
right the right Cadence for an insurance
company is to be a little slower but to
build for the long term and the other is
um we frame it as uh to keep our
promises that's like in a literal sense
that like we're making promises to our
policyholders we're making promises to
each other we're making promises to our
Regulators but I I think that that's
something that we try to have it or we
are we have as an animating part of our
culture that like we keep our
commitments and those two things
together we believe are going to allow
us to hopefully honestly not just build
the largest a large life insurance
company or the largest life insurance
company in the crypto economy but you
know we have Ambitions to like be the
largest life insurance company period
that's uh an awesome place to wrap up so
if anyone's interested in learning more
about you or meanwhile where can they
reach you and then secondly who are the
types of folks that you're interested in
chatting with right now you can learn
more at meanwhile.com and the way it
works is uh we have a wait list and in
the wait list you some demographic
questions you know just some indication
of how big a policy you want although
that's not binding and then uh you know
you sign some disclosure forms they're
like we can make sure you're not a
terrorist and you know those sorts of
things and then every single person who
signs up on the wait list uh we jump on
the phone with or we ask for your
meeting and that's because you know the
product's complicated people have
questions they want to talk about
custody they want to talk about the
Investments they want to talk about
their particular tax situation and even
though we're not their Tax Advisor like
being pointing the people and giving
them some indications so that's really
um if you want to learn more you know
you can sign up on the website and
that's not a commitment to buy that's
really a commitment to talk to me for
better or worse and what are we looking
for like look our minimum policy size is
5 BTC paid over 10 years in Bermuda it's
called sophisticated investors in the US
you might think of it as accredited you
know we're only interacting with you
know people who you know have a certain
size and that's again not our permanent
ambition our ambition is to like figure
out how to work with people with uh
smaller smaller Stacks that's where
we're at now and I'd say that we have
two different customers we have like
true people with big Bitcoin Stacks
Bitcoin whales
that's about half the people so far the
other half are just like people who you
know we have Tech entrepreneurs who were
have five Bitcoin and you know were
planning to huddle it and we have eth
coax who have this side store value in
Bitcoin you know a few Bitcoin and they
might want to buy electronic policy so
we do sort of split the the customer
base into like maybe BTC whales and like
everyone else but actually again on the
policies we've bound it's like 50 50. so
I think if you're in either of those
groups and Bitcoin life insurance sound
interesting to you you should uh head to
the website awesome well thanks for
joining us today Zach and for hopping on
the mic it was really cool to hear about
this Innovative and yet not so
Innovative product that you guys are
providing and I'm definitely looking
forward to keeping my ears to the ground
and
seeing how meanwhile can expand and
plant its roots in this traditional
industry and start onboarding new users
you never thought about life insurance
policies before yeah perfect thanks so
much Dylan I really appreciate your time
this is a great conversation cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was super cool
to chat with someone who formally worked
in the government and policy realm but
parlayed those experiences into building
in the digital asset space it was also
really cool to hear Zach's philosophy
about the role that the insurance
industry can play in amalgamating the
Bitcoin economy and making Bitcoin
become a multi-decade asset also it was
just really interesting to learn more
about how using Bitcoin to pay for life
insurance can actually help decrease the
complexity of the product offering on
that note I want to thank you so much
for taking the time to listen to the
smart economy podcast if you liked what
you heard and want to support the show
please keep Neo news today in mind when
voting for your Neo Council
representative as part of Neo's
governance process
we appreciate you and look forward to
catching you next time
[Music]